sphinx/source/docs/user_guide/export.rst, before:

.. _userguide_export:

Exporting Plots
===============

Additional dependencies
-----------------------

In order to use the |export| functions, users have to install some
additional dependencies. These dependencies can be installed via conda:

.. code-block:: sh

    conda install selenium phantomjs

Alternatively, you can install phantomjs from npm via

.. code-block:: sh

    npm install -g phantomjs-prebuilt

Note that the minimum compatible version of PhantomJS is 2.1, regardless of
how it is installed.

.. _userguide_export_png:

PNG Generation
--------------

Bokeh can generate RGBA-format Portable Network Graphics (PNG) images from
layouts using the |export_png| function. This functionality uses a headless
browser called WebKit to render the layout in memory and then capture a
screenshot. The generated image will be of the same dimensions as the source
layout.

In order to create a PNG with a transparent background, users should set the
``Plot.background_fill_color`` and ``Plot.border_fill_color`` properties to
``None``.

Limitations
~~~~~~~~~~~

Responsive sizing_modes may generate layouts with unexpected size and aspect
ratios. It is recommended to use the default ``fixed`` sizing mode.

Example usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Usage is similar to the |save| and |show| functions.

.. code-block:: python

    from bokeh.io import export_png

    export_png(plot, filename="plot.png")

.. image:: /_images/unemployment.png

Image Objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In case you would like to access an Image object directly in code rather than
saving the image to a file, you can use the lower-level function
:func:`~bokeh.io.export.get_screenshot_as_png`.

.. code-block:: python

    from bokeh.io.export import get_screenshot_as_png

    image = get_screenshot_as_png(obj, height=height, width=width, driver=webdriver)

.. _userguide_export_svg:

SVG Generation
--------------

Bokeh also supports replacing the HTML5 Canvas plot output with an SVG element
that can be edited in image editing programs such as Adobe Illustrator and/or
converted to PDFs. This functionality uses a JavaScript library called
canvas2svg to mock the normal Canvas element and its methods with an SVG
element.

The SVG output isn't as performant as the default Canvas backend when it comes
to rendering large number of glyphs or handling lots of user interactions like
panning.

Like PNGs, in order to create a SVG with a transparent background, users
should set the ``Plot.background_fill_color`` and ``Plot.border_fill_color``
properties to ``None``.

Limitations
~~~~~~~~~~~

It's not possible to create a single SVG for a layout of plots, as each plot
is it's own distinct SVG element. Alternatively, it's possible to download a
SVG plot using a SaveTool from the toolbar. However, currently an SVG export
of a plot with a toolbar will have a blank area where the toolbar was rendered
in the browser.

Example usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SVG backend is activated by setting the ``Plot.output_backend`` attribute
to ``"svg"``.

.. code-block:: python

    # option one
    plot = Plot(output_backend="svg")
    # option two
    plot.output_backend = "svg"

Exporting a SVG Image
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The simplest method to manually export a SVG plot is to install a browser
bookmarklet from the New York Times called `SVG-Crowbar`_. When clicked, it
runs a snippet of JavaScript and adds a prompt on the page to download the
plot. It's written to work with Chrome and should work with Firefox in most
cases.

Alternatively, it's possible to download a SVG plot using the ``SaveTool``, but
the toolbar isn't captured though it figures into the plot layout solver
calculations. It's not great, but a workable option.

For headless export, there's a utility function, |export_svgs|, which similar
usage to the |save| and |show| functions. This function will download all of
SVG-enabled plots within a layout as distinct SVG files.

.. code-block:: python

    from bokeh.io import export_svgs

    plot.output_backend = "svg"
    export_svgs(plot, filename="plot.svg")

.. image:: /_images/unemployment.svg

.. |export|          replace:: :func:`~bokeh.io.export`
.. |export_png|      replace:: :func:`~bokeh.io.export_png`
.. |export_svgs|     replace:: :func:`~bokeh.io.export_svgs`
.. |save|            replace:: :func:`~bokeh.io.save`
.. |show|            replace:: :func:`~bokeh.io.show`

.. _SVG-Crowbar: http://nytimes.github.io/svg-crowbar/

Commit message:

Switch to geckodriver/firefox in bokeh.io

sphinx/source/docs/user_guide/export.rst, after:

.. _userguide_export:

Exporting Plots
===============

Additional dependencies
-----------------------

In order to use the |export| functions, users may have to install additional
dependencies. These dependencies can be installed via conda:

.. code-block:: sh

    conda install selenium geckodriver firefox

Alternatively one can use ``chromedriver`` and ``chromium`` browser (or one of
its variants). Typically at least one, compatible browser will be available on
modern systems, thus installing a web browser may not be necessary. bokeh will
search for available browsers (and drivers) and use what's available, unless
configured otherwise.

.. _userguide_export_png:

PNG Generation
--------------

Bokeh can generate RGBA-format Portable Network Graphics (PNG) images from
layouts using the |export_png| function. This functionality uses a headless
browser called WebKit to render the layout in memory and then capture a
screenshot. The generated image will be of the same dimensions as the source
layout.

In order to create a PNG with a transparent background, users should set the
``Plot.background_fill_color`` and ``Plot.border_fill_color`` properties to
``None``.

Limitations
~~~~~~~~~~~

Responsive sizing_modes may generate layouts with unexpected size and aspect
ratios. It is recommended to use the default ``fixed`` sizing mode.

Example usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Usage is similar to the |save| and |show| functions.

.. code-block:: python

    from bokeh.io import export_png

    export_png(plot, filename="plot.png")

.. image:: /_images/unemployment.png

Image Objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In case you would like to access an Image object directly in code rather than
saving the image to a file, you can use the lower-level function
:func:`~bokeh.io.export.get_screenshot_as_png`.

.. code-block:: python

    from bokeh.io.export import get_screenshot_as_png

    image = get_screenshot_as_png(obj, height=height, width=width, driver=webdriver)

.. _userguide_export_svg:

SVG Generation
--------------

Bokeh also supports replacing the HTML5 Canvas plot output with an SVG element
that can be edited in image editing programs such as Adobe Illustrator and/or
converted to PDFs. This functionality uses a JavaScript library called
canvas2svg to mock the normal Canvas element and its methods with an SVG
element.

The SVG output isn't as performant as the default Canvas backend when it comes
to rendering large number of glyphs or handling lots of user interactions like
panning.

Like PNGs, in order to create a SVG with a transparent background, users
should set the ``Plot.background_fill_color`` and ``Plot.border_fill_color``
properties to ``None``.

Limitations
~~~~~~~~~~~

It's not possible to create a single SVG for a layout of plots, as each plot
is it's own distinct SVG element. Alternatively, it's possible to download a
SVG plot using a SaveTool from the toolbar. However, currently an SVG export
of a plot with a toolbar will have a blank area where the toolbar was rendered
in the browser.

Example usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SVG backend is activated by setting the ``Plot.output_backend`` attribute
to ``"svg"``.

.. code-block:: python

    # option one
    plot = Plot(output_backend="svg")
    # option two
    plot.output_backend = "svg"

Exporting a SVG Image
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The simplest method to manually export a SVG plot is to install a browser
bookmarklet from the New York Times called `SVG-Crowbar`_. When clicked, it
runs a snippet of JavaScript and adds a prompt on the page to download the
plot. It's written to work with Chrome and should work with Firefox in most
cases.

Alternatively, it's possible to download a SVG plot using the ``SaveTool``, but
the toolbar isn't captured though it figures into the plot layout solver
calculations. It's not great, but a workable option.

For headless export, there's a utility function, |export_svgs|, which similar
usage to the |save| and |show| functions. This function will download all of
SVG-enabled plots within a layout as distinct SVG files.

.. code-block:: python

    from bokeh.io import export_svgs

    plot.output_backend = "svg"
    export_svgs(plot, filename="plot.svg")

.. image:: /_images/unemployment.svg

.. |export|          replace:: :func:`~bokeh.io.export`
.. |export_png|      replace:: :func:`~bokeh.io.export_png`
.. |export_svgs|     replace:: :func:`~bokeh.io.export_svgs`
.. |save|            replace:: :func:`~bokeh.io.save`
.. |show|            replace:: :func:`~bokeh.io.show`

.. _SVG-Crowbar: http://nytimes.github.io/svg-crowbar/
